# Senior-Seminar
## Problem
The problem is to develop a java based solution where there are 5 time slots, 5 classroosm(with 16 students max), and 18 seminars. Each seminar cannot repeat twice and each student may not be allowed to repeat a session. The data is given by a csv file that contains each students' name, email, and choices as well as each sessions' name, ID, and proctor. The goal is to create a schedule that minimizes conflicts and giving each person as many of their choices as possible
## Methodology
I approached the problem by creating a schedule based on the popularity of each session. This was determined by adding a certain number to the popularity variable in each session object. This number was based on which choice number it was. So if it were a 1st choice, 5 would be added, but if it were 2nd choice, 4 would be added. This would automatically weight each choice as it would reflect how much a certain session was wanted. I then sorted the list and added the 7 most popular seminars again as there are 18 seminars to begin with. I then scheduled each person by having a for loop that goes through each time slot. Within this for loop, there was another for loop that kept track of the choice number. Within that for loop, there was a for loop that would go through each seminar. If you could add more people to a session and it was a choice, that person would be added to that session. If the person couldn't find their session they were looking for and they went through all their choices, they were assigned to the session with the least amount of people. If they didn't fill out the form, they were assigned in this way as well.
